INVERNESS
Inverness is a small town situated in beautiful countryside in the north-east
of Scotland. It is an important centre for visits to many parts of the
Highlands, which is the famous mountainous area in Scotland. Inverness is a
small town but it has got an excellent transport system. There are trains to all
the main cities of Scotland (Inverness - Aberdeen 1.5 hours, Inverness -
Dundee 3 hours, Inverness - Glasgow 4 hours, Inverness - Edinburgh 4.5
hours). Dalcross Airport (about 8 miles east of the town) offers flights to
many parts of the country. The buses leaving from Faraline Park serve the
town and the surrounding area. Many of the big banks have branches in
Inverness so changing money is not a problem for tourists. As well as these
essential services, the town has cultural and entertainment facilities. There are
theatres and cinemas, and some hotels organise Highland entertainment
during the summer months.
Inverness is an old town, but there are not many buildings left from the old
times. However, there are still some buildings in the town which are very
old, such as the houses on Douglas Row. And Church Street has some
interesting old churches.
Inverness is situated at the northern end of the Caledonian Canal. The
canal was opened in 1822. Sailing boats used the canal to travel between the
Irish sea and the North Sea. The canal provided a safe and fast journey for
them. When steamships became popular instead of sailing boats, people
stopped using the canal for transport because these steamships were too large
and could not travel down the canal. Nowadays, there are sightseeing trips
for tourists down the canal.
There are many good eating places in Inverness. There are plenty of
restaurants and hotels which offer meals to non-residents. They have
delicious local dishes at cheap prices; try some 'haggis' and a glass of malt
whisky before you leave. There are also all kinds of sea food.
Places pf Interest
Inverness Castle (1834) - It is now a court house.
Museum and Art Gallery - You can see the collection about the history
of the Highlands in the Museum. In the Art Gallery artists exhibit their
paintings, sculptures and photographs, which change frequently.
Abertaff House (1592) - The Highland Association uses this building
now. This association tries to help people to learn Gaelic, the language which
about 80,000 Scottish people speak. They are also interested in the country's
national clothes, food and musical instruments.
St Andrew's Cathedral (1869) - It is richly decorated with fine
windows and pillars.